---
published: true
layout: post
---
## EViews

EViews documents (also known as “workfiles”) are files that hold different objects (which contain data). Unlike Microsoft Word or Excel, EViews does not open up a blank document upon launch. Instead, the user must always specify the structure (or frequency) of the file, a range for the data, and a sample. A workfile is made up of one or more page files.

EViews allows the user to create an empty workfile (i.e., one without any data) and to create a workfile by importing data from another program.

There are three types of workfile structures available in EViews:

1. Dated/regular frequency (for time series data)

2. Unstructured/undated (mostly for cross-sectional data)

3. Balanced panel (for panel data).

A workfile can have multiple pagefiles, each of a specific (possibly different) type. However, series objects in a specific pagefile must have the same structure (frequency).

Creating a workfile for annual time series data involves 4 steps: (1) specifying the workfile structure as “dated – regular frequency”, (2) specifying the frequency of data as annual, (3) selecting a start and end date, and (4) naming your workfile. The 4th step is optional.

After creating a workfile, EViews will automatically create two (2) series objects. Please identify (i.e., check) these two objects in the following list.


The range of the workfile allows for up to 140 observations while the current (or active) sample allows for a maximum of 100 observations.

c (for estimated coefficient vector)

resid (for residuals)


Notice that EViews automatically detects that the source data was a time series. Choose the pre-defined range called “Bahamas” to import the economic series relevant to The Bahamas and then click Next.

EViews then prompts you to enter information about each of the columns of data. From Header type, select “Names in first line” to make sure that the variable names will appear at the top of each column.

As a last step, EViews asks you how you would like to import the data; select “Create new page” and click Finish. Your workfile should now appear with a pagefile containing data on the Bahamas



EViews also allows the user to import data by simply copying data from an existing spreadsheet (in Microsoft Excel or other applications) and pasting it into an existing workfile. Using the steps in the chart below, work in EViews to discover the correct way to do so. Then place the steps below in the correct order.


### Adding Data by Creating a New Pagefile

EViews workfiles can hold more than one page. To add a page, click the “New Page” tab at the bottom. A drop-down menu appears which indicates a variety of ways to create a new page:



One way to create a new page is by loading a new data file into the page. Let’s add to our file the same macroeconomic variables for another country--this time for Jamaica. On the New Page tab, click Load Workfile Page… and select the Caribbean Excel file.

The Excel Read box will open up again.  Select Jamaica as the pre-defined range, specifying the structure (or frequency) of your data in the new page, and then click Finish to load the data.



### Copying and Pasting Data into a New Page

Let’s continue to build up our workfile by importing data for the Dominican Republic. Another way to add data to a new page is by copying the data from Microsoft Excel (or another program) and selecting Paste from Clipboard as Page as an option from the New Page tab.

### Adding Data to Blank Pagefile

Lastly, let’s add some data from Trinidad & Tobago. Another way to add a new page is from scratch. Click the New Page tab and select Specify Frequency/Range…

Similar to when you created the original workfile, specify the structure type, data range and name of the page (e.g., “trin”). You now have a blank page for this country.

Open the Caribbean file and copy and paste the data into the new “trin” page.

### Note: Multiple Series in a Pagefile

Such comparisons between countries, as in the previous question, can be made more easily by having the data from our four countries in one pagefile. Series in the same pagefile can be combined to create “group” objects


### series

The series object is the main data object in EViews, represented by a yellow icon with a graph in it. By nature, a series object contains one column of data (objects with more than one series are called “groups”). Series objects in the same pagefile will have the same range, which is always shown in the left-most column. This column shows the dates associated with each observation in the case of time series data or the observation number in the case of cross-sectional data.


#### the following are valid ways to create a series

* Select Object → New Object from the main menu and choose “Series.” 
In the command window by issuing the "series" command.


* Transforming an existing series in the command window using the generate (genr) command (to obtain first difference, log, etc.) 


* Transforming an existing series using EViews functions, such as Generate Series by Equation via the Quick menu. 


* Transforming an existing series using sample conditions (Quick → Generate Series, Generate Series by Equation), such as an IF condition. 


The first two choices will create empty series with the same workfile structure as the other series on that pagefile. The last three options are ways to transform existing series using equations. They all involve performing an EViews operation on a series in your current workfile to create a new series. In particular, the last choice allows you to create a new (transformed) series with sample restrictions.

After you double-click on a series, the series will open in the standard EView's spreadsheet view. At the top of the window, you will notice the menu items associated with the series object, each one allowing you to perform specific analyses of the series.


### Viewing A Series as a Graph

 Click the View button at the top of the window to produce a graph of real GDP growth using the Graph menu item.

A Graph Option dialog box will appear asking for you to specify some items for your graph. 

Under Option pages, select Basic type page. Under the Graph type section, select Basic graph from the General category.

Now create a line graph. Select Line & Symbol from the Specific category. Leave the Details setting as specified by the default options and click OK.

A new graph appears showing the % change in real GDP (annual basis). Notice that at the bottom of the graph there is a slider bar that allows you to restrict the sample under consideration. (Incidentally, any changes to the sample made using the slider will not affect the rest of the workfile unless you right-click and select "Set as workfile sample").


### Viewing Basic Summary Statistics

Basic summary statistics, including histograms, can be produced in EViews using View → Descriptive Statistics & Tests.

The Stats Table view displays descriptive statistics for the series in a tabular form, while the Histogram and Stats view provides useful summary statistics and a histogram of the series.
