---
published: false
layout: post
category: ubuntu
tag:
  - linux
  - ubuntu
  - R
---
Install R in Ubuntu using Rstudio repo. 

## A New Post

Enter text in [Markdown](https://www.digitalocean.com/community/tutorials/how-to-set-up-r-on-ubuntu-14-04). 

Step 1

sudo sh -c 'echo "deb http://cran.rstudio.com/bin/linux/ubuntu trusty/" >> /etc/apt/sources.list'

To authenticate packages downloaded using APT, we have to add a public key. The Ubuntu archives on CRAN are signed with a key with ID E084DAB9. Add this key to your system.

    gpg --keyserver keyserver.ubuntu.com --recv-key E084DAB9

Next we need to add the key to apt.

    gpg -a --export E084DAB9 | sudo apt-key add -

Step 2 — Installing R

Now that APT has been set up properly, we are ready to use it to install R.

First, we need to update the list of available packages since we updated the sources list.

    sudo apt-get update

Now we can install R. We use the -y flag to automatically answer Yes when asked if we are sure we want to download the package.

    sudo apt-get -y install r-base


sudo apt-get --force-yes install r-base-core


Step 4 — Installing devtools Package

While many R packages are hosted on CRAN and can be installed using the built-in install.packages() function, there are many more packages that are hosted on GitHub but are not on CRAN. To install R packages from GitHub, we need to use the devtools R package, so let's install it.

The devtools R package requires three system packages to be installed on the Droplet, namely libcurl4-gnutls-dev, libxml2-dev, and libssl-devc. Install these three packages:

    sudo apt-get -y install libcurl4-gnutls-dev libxml2-dev libssl-dev


